**AWARENESS AND TRAINING (AT)**

**[AT-1: Security Awareness and Training Policy and
Procedures]{.underline}**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization develops, disseminates, and
reviews/updates \[*Assignment: organization defined frequency\]:*

a\. A formal, documented security awareness and training policy that
addresses purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management
commitment, coordination among organizational entities, and compliance;
and

b\. Formal, documented procedures to facilitate the implementation of
the security awareness and training policy and associated security
awareness and training controls.

Control Translation: Ensure security awareness and training policy and
procedures are in place.

Notes: The organizational risk management strategy is a key factor in
the development of the security awareness and training policy. Related
control: PM-9. This control can be applied at the General level.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Security Awareness and
Training Policy (if available). Verify that the policy and procedures
are consistent with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders,
directives, policies, regulations, standards, and guidance of
organization/agency.

Technology specific: General, All

**[AT-2: Security Awareness]{.underline}**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization provides basic security
awareness training to all information system users (including managers,
senior executives, and contractors) as part of initial training for new
users, when required by system changes, and \[*Assignment:
organization-defined frequency\]* thereafter.

Control Translation: Ensure basic security awareness and training is
available to all information system users.

Notes: The content for training should include a basic understanding of
the need for information security and user actions to maintain security
and to respond to suspected security incidents.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Security Awareness and
Training Policy (if available). Verify that the security awareness
policy and procedures include awareness techniques such as displaying
posters, offering supplies inscribed with security reminders, generating
email advisories/notices from senior organizational officials,
displaying logon screen messages, and conducting information security
awareness events. Examine samples of completed user training and verify
that it is completed at least annually.

Technology specific: General, All

**[AT-3: Security Training]{.underline}**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization provides role-based
security-related training: (i) before authorizing access to the system
or performing assigned duties; (ii) when required by system changes; and
(iii) \[*Assignment: organization-defined frequency\] thereafter.*

Control Translation: Ensure security awareness and training is available
to all information system users based on assigned roles and
responsibilities.

Notes: The organization also provides the training necessary for these
individuals to carry out their responsibilities related to operations
security within the context of the organization's information security
program. Related controls: AT-2, SA-3.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Security Awareness and
Training Policy (if available). Verify that the security awareness
policy and procedures include awareness techniques such as displaying
posters, offering supplies inscribed with security reminders, generating
email advisories/notices from senior organizational officials,
displaying logon screen messages, and conducting information security
awareness events.

Technology specific: All

**[AT-4: Security Training Records]{.underline}**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Documents and monitors individual information system security
training activities including basic security awareness training and
specific information system security training; and

b\. Retains individual training records for \[*Assignment:
organization-defined time period\].*

Control Translation: Ensure basic security awareness training and
specific system security training activities for each information system
user recorded and retained.

Notes: Evidence for AC-2 at the General level. AC-5/AC-6 can be applied
to this at the General/Technical.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Security Awareness and
Training Policy (if available). While an organization may deem that
organizationally mandated individual training programs and the
development of individual training plans are necessary, this control
does not mandate either. Documentation for specialized training may be
maintained by individual supervisors at the option of the organization.

Technology specific: All
