**Incident Response Policy and Procedures (IR)**

**IR-1: Incident Response Policy and Procedures**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization develops, disseminates, and
reviews/updates \[*Assignment: organization defined frequency\]:*

a\. A formal, documented incident response policy that addresses
purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment,
coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and

b\. Formal, documented procedures to facilitate the implementation of
the incident response policy and associated incident response controls.

Control Translation: Ensure incident response policy and procedures are
in place.

Notes: The organizational risk management strategy is a key factor in
the development of the incident response policy. Related control: PM-9.
This control can be applied at the General level.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available). Verify that the policy and procedures are consistent with
applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies,
regulations, standards, and guidance of organization/agency.

Technology specific: General

**IR-2: Incident Response Training**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Trains personnel in their incident response roles and
responsibilities with respect to the information system; and

b\. Provides refresher training \[Assignment: organization-defined
frequency\].

Control Translation: Ensure incident response training is in place.

Notes: Incident response training includes user training in the
identification and reporting of suspicious activities, both from
external and internal sources. Related control: AT-3.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available) and verify that it is documented that incident response
training is in place. Verify that organization incorporates simulated
events into incident response training and automated mechanism is
employed to provide a thorough and realistic training environment.

Technology specific: General

**IR-3: Incident Response Testing and Exercises**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization tests and/or exercises the
incident response capability for the information system \[Assignment:
organization-defined frequency\] using \[Assignment:
organization-defined tests and/or exercises\] to determine the incident
response effectiveness and documents the results.

Control Translation: Ensure incident response tests and exercises are in
place.

Notes: Related control: AT-2.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available) and verify that it is documented that incident response tests
and exercises are in place. Verify that organization tests and/or
exercises the incident response capability in accordance to the
organization-defined frequency and that organization follows the
organization-defined tests and/or exercises.

Technology specific: General

**IR-4: Incident Handling**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a.  Implements an incident handling capability for security incidents
    that includes preparation, detection and analysis, containment,
    eradication, and recovery;

b.  Coordinates incident handling activities with contingency planning
    activities; and

c.  Incorporates lessons learned from ongoing incident handling
    activities into incident response procedures, training, and
    testing/exercises, and implements the resulting changes accordingly.

Control Translation: Ensure incident handling capability is in place and
that it coordinates with contingency planning activities.

Notes: Incident-related information can be obtained from a variety of
sources including, but not limited to, audit monitoring, network
monitoring, physical access monitoring, and user/administrator reports.
Related control: AU-6, CP-2, IR-2, IR-3, PE-6, SC-5, SC-7, SI-3, SI-4,
SI-7.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available) and verify that it is documented that incident handling
capability is in place and that it coordinates with contingency planning
activities. Verify that lessons learned are incorporated into incident
response procedures, training, and testing/exercises.

Technology specific: General

**IR-5: Incident Monitoring**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization tracks and documents
information system security incidents.

Control Translation: Ensure incident handling monitoring capability is
in place and that security incidents are tracked and documented.

Notes: Documenting information system security incidents includes, for
example maintaining records about each incident, the status of the
incident, and other pertinent information necessary for forensics,
evaluating incident details, trends, and handling. Incident information
can be obtained from a variety of sources including, for example,
incident reports, incident response teams, audit monitoring, network
monitoring, physical access monitoring, and user/administrator reports.
Related control: AU-6, AU-7, SI-4.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available) and verify that it is documented that incident handling
monitoring capability is in place and that security incidents are
tracked and documented. Verify that any deficiencies identified are
added to the POA&M as needed. Note if organization has automated
mechanisms employed to assist in tracking of security incidents. If not,
note how security incidents are tracked and documented.

Technology specific: General

**IR-6: Incident Reporting**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a.  Requires personnel to report suspected security incidents to the
    organizational incident response capability within \[Assignment:
    organization-defined time-period\]; and

b.  Reports security incident information to designated authorities.

Control Translation: Ensure incident reporting capability is in place
and that security incidents are reported to designated authorities.

Notes: The intent of this to address both specific incident reporting
requirements within an organization and the formal incident reporting
requirements for federal agencies and their subordinate organizations.
The types of security incidents reported, the content and timeliness of
the reports and the list of designated reporting authorities are
consistent with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives,
policies, regulations, standards, and guidance. Current federal policy
requires that all federal agencies (unless specifically exempted from
such requirements) report security incidents to the United States
Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) within specified time frames
designated in the US-CERT Concept of Operations for Federal Cyber
Security Incident Handling. Related control: IR-4, IR-5.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available) and verify that it is documented that incident reporting
capability is in place and that security incidents are reported to
designated authorities. Verify that suspected security incidents are
reported to the response capability within the organization-defined
time-period. Note if automated mechanism is employed to assist in the
reporting of security incidents. If not, note the process of
organization's incident reporting capability.

Technology specific: General

**IR-7: Incident Response Assistance**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization provides an incident response
support resource, integral to the organizational incident response
capability, that offers advice and assistance to users of the
information system for the handling and reporting of security incidents.

Control Translation: Ensure incident response assistance capability is
in place and that security incidents are tracked and documented.

Notes: Possible implementations of incident response support resources
in an organization include a help desk or an assistance group and access
to forensics services, when required. Related control: IR-4, IR-6.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
available) and verify that it is documented that incident response
assistance capability is in place and that security incidents are
tracked and documented. Note if organization have automated mechanism
employed that will assist in incident response assistance support. If
not, note the security incident assistance capability to external
providers.

Technology specific: General

**IR-8: Incident Response Plan**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a.  Develops an incident response plan that:

    -   Provides the organization with roadmap for implementing its
        incident response capability;

    -   Describes the structure and organization of the incident
        response capability;

    -   Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response
        capability fits into the overall organization;

    -   Meets the unique requirements of the organization, which relate
        to mission, size, structure, and functions;

    -   Defines reportable incidents;

    -   Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability
        within the organization;

    -   Defines the resources and management support needed to
        effectively maintain and mature an incident response capability;
        and

    -   Is reviewed and approved by designated officials within the
        organization;

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
b.  Distributes copies of the incident response plan to \[Assignment:
    organization-defined list of incident response personnel (identified
    by name and/or by role) and organizational elements\];

c.  Reviews the incident response plan \[Assignment:
    organization-defined frequency\];

d.  d\. Revises the incident response plan to address
    system/organizational changes or problems encountered during plan
    implementation, execution, or testing; and

e.  e\. Communicates incident response plan changes to \[Assignment:
    organization-defined list of incident response personnel (identified
    by name and/or by role) and organizational elements\].

> Control Translation: Ensure incident response plan is in place.
>
> Notes: It is important that organizations have a formal, focused, and
> coordinated approach to responding to incidents. The organization's
> mission, strategies, and goals for incident response help determine
> the structure of its incident response capability.
>
> How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Incident Response Policy (if
> available) and verify that incident response plan is in place. Verify
> that plan is reviewed and updated according to organization
> defined-frequency and that plan is distributed to personnel
> responsible for incident response capabilities.
>
> Technology specific: General
