**Risk Assessment (RA)**

**RA-1: Risk Assessment Policy And Procedures**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization develops, disseminates, and
reviews/updates \[Assignment: organization defined frequency\]:

a\. A formal, documented risk assessment policy that addresses purpose,
scope, roles,

Responsibilities, management commitment, coordination among
organizational entities, and compliance; and

b\. Formal, documented procedures to facilitate the implementation of
the risk assessment policy and associated risk assessment controls.

Control Translation: Ensure risk assessment policy and procedures are in
place.

Notes: The organizational risk management strategy is a key factor in
the development of the risk assessment policy. Related control: PM-9.
This control can be applied at the General level.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Risk Assessment Policy (if
available). Verify that the policy and procedures are consistent with
applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies,
regulations, standards, and guidance of organization/agency.

Technology specific: General

**RA-2: Security Categorization**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Categorizes information and the information system in accordance
with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies,
regulations, standards, and guidance;

b\. Documents the security categorization results (including supporting
rationale) in the security plan for the information system; and

c\. Ensures the security categorization decision is reviewed and
approved by the authorizing official or authorizing official designated
representative.

Control Translation: This control is usually looking for a FIPS 199
security categorization document to have been completed. If this is not
the document completed there should be other documentation of the
perceived impact level of the system in question along with rationale
for the level. This control is related to CM-8 (Information System
Component Inventory), MP-4 (Media Storage), SC-7 (Boundary Protection).

Notes: A signed FIPS 199 categorization should be the document found to
satisfy this.

How to test and evaluate: Review the signed FIPS 199 categorization, the
risk assessment policy, any procedures addressing security
categorization of organizational information and information systems,
and the security plan.

Technology specific: General

**RA-3: Risk Assessment**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Conducts an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and
magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure,
disruption, modification, or destruction of the information system and
the information it processes, stores, or transmits;

b\. Documents risk assessment results;

c\. Reviews risk assessment results at an organization-defined
frequency; and

d\. Updates the risk assessment at an organization-defined frequency or
whenever there are significant changes to the information system or
environment of operation (including the identification of new threats
and vulnerabilities), or other conditions that may impact the security
state of the system.

Control Translation: This control is looking for a risk assessment
process to be completed either as a part of regular security audits or
as a part of another process (e.g. continuous monitoring or audits as a
result of changes).

Notes: Documentation can be an outcome of the audit or as a supporting
document to the audit report.

How to test and evaluate: Review the risk assessment policy, security
planning policy and procedures, procedures addressing organizational
assessments of risk, security plan, or risk assessment for analysis and
reporting of system risks.

Technology specific: General

**RA-5: Vulnerability Scanning**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Scans for vulnerabilities in the information system and hosted
applications at an organization-defined frequency and/or randomly in
accordance with organization-defined process and when new
vulnerabilities potentially affecting the system/applications are
identified and reported;

b\. Employs vulnerability scanning tools and techniques that promote
interoperability among tools and automate parts of the vulnerability
management process by using standards for:

\- Enumerating platforms, software flaws, and improper configurations;

\- Formatting and making transparent, checklists and test procedures;
and

\- Measuring vulnerability impact;

c\. Analyzes vulnerability scan reports and results from security
control assessments;

d\. Remediates legitimate vulnerabilities within organization-defined
response times in accordance with an organizational assessment of risk;
and

e\. Shares information obtained from the vulnerability scanning process
and security control assessments with designated personnel throughout
the organization to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other
information systems (i.e., systemic weaknesses or deficiencies).

Control Translation: This control is looking for a procedure and method
to be used to scan systems on a regular frequency as well as when deemed
necessary. The ideal assessment nets the documented procedures, outputs
showing the procedures being followed and a documented review of
outputs. This control is related to CA-2 (Security Assessments), CM-6
(Configuration Settings), RA-3 (Risk Assessment), SI-2 (Flaw
Remediation).

Notes: Make sure that all devices from the sample are reflected in the
scan results. In addition check to ensure that the scan results show a
secured system or a system improving over time.

How to test and evaluate: Review the risk assessment policy, procedures
addressing vulnerability scanning, security plan, vulnerability scanning
results (e.g. Nessus reports, FoundStone report output, and/or other
scanning mechanisms), and patch and vulnerability management records
showing review and addressing issues found during scans.

Technology specific: Some portion apply to all components and some
potions will be at the general level
