**Planning (PL)**

**PL-1: Security Planning Policy And Procedures**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization develops, disseminates, and
reviews/updates \[Assignment: organization defined frequency\]:

a\. A formal, documented security planning policy that addresses
purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment,
coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and

b\. Formal, documented procedures to facilitate the implementation of
the security planning policy and associated security planning controls.

Control Translation: Ensure security planning policy and procedures are
in place.

Notes: The organizational risk management strategy is a key factor in
the development of the security planning policy. Related control: PM-9.
This control can be applied at the General level.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Security Planning Policy (if
available). Verify that the policy and procedures are consistent with
applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies,
regulations, standards, and guidance of organization/agency.

Technology specific: General

**PL-2: System Security Plan**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Develops a security plan for the information system that:

\- Is consistent with the organization's enterprise architecture;

\- Explicitly defines the authorization boundary for the system;

\- Describes the operational context of the information system in terms
of missions and business processes;

\- Provides the security category and impact level of the information
system including supporting rationale;

\- Describes the operational environment for the information system;

\- Describes relationships with or connections to other information
systems;

\- Provides an overview of the security requirements for the system;

\- Describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those
requirements including a rationale for the tailoring and supplementation
decisions; and

\- Is reviewed and approved by the authorizing official or designated
representative prior to plan implementation;

b\. Reviews the security plan for the information system

c\. Updates the plan to address changes to the information
system/environment of operation or problems identified during plan
implementation or security control assessments.

Control Translation: This control reviews the SSP and how the
organization reviews and updates the plan. It is mostly a checklist of
items that the SSP covers and documentation of the reviews. This control
is related to PM-1 (Information Security Program Plan), PM-7 (Enterprise
Architecture), PM-8 (Critical Infrastructure Plan), PM-9 (Risk
Management Strategy), PM-11 (Mission/Business Process Definition).

Notes: Each item on the checklist can be used as a part of the answer
and then the assessor can just explain where each of those items are
covered.

How to test and evaluate: Review the security planning policy,
procedures addressing security plan development and implementation,
procedures addressing security plan reviews and updates, enterprise
architecture documentation, security plan for the information system,
records of security plan reviews and updates looking for each of the
required checklist type items and for documentation of SSP reviews and
updates performed on a regular schedule.

Technology specific: General

**PL-4: Rules of Behavior**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Establishes and makes readily available to all information system
users, the rules that describe their responsibilities and expected
behavior with regard to information and information system usage; and

b\. Receives signed acknowledgment from users indicating that they have
read, understand, and agree to abide by the rules of behavior, before
authorizing access to information and the information system.

Control Translation: This control is fairly simple and is just looking
for documentation of rules of behavior for the system and
acknowledgement of these rules from each user. This control is related
to PS-6 (Access Agreements).

Notes: This may be documented in a larger procedure or via a specific
rules of behavior document the acknowledgement of these rules may be a
part of the reviewed rules or it may be a separate process. Most likely
a sample of these agreements will need to be collected.

How to test and evaluate: Review the security planning policy,
procedures addressing rules of behavior for information system users,
and rules of behavior documents as well as examples of user
acknowledgement of the rules to verify that the rules are both
communicated and agreed to by each user.

Technology specific: General

**PL-5: Privacy Impact Assessment**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization conducts a privacy impact
assessment on the information system in accordance with OMB policy.

Control Translation: The privacy impact analysis should be completed and
documented easily by reviewing the completed form.

Notes: Make sure there is a current PIA or that no changes to the system
have happened that would necessitate a new PIA.

How to test and evaluate: Review the security planning policy,
procedures addressing privacy impact assessments on the information
system, privacy impact assessment looking for a completed PIA and any
updates that might be needed.

Technology specific: General

PL-6: Security-Related Activity Planning

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization plans and coordinates
security-related activities affecting the information system before
conducting such activities in order to reduce the impact on
organizational operations (i.e., mission, functions, image, and
reputation), organizational assets, and individuals.

Control Translation: This control is reviewing for security assessments,
audits, system hardware and software maintenance, and contingency plan
testing and exercises. Reviewing for both emergency and non-emergency
situations.

How to test and evaluate: Review the security planning policy and
procedures addressing security-related activity planning for the
information system including the output of the most recent contingency
plan testing and exercises, any output from hardware and software
maintenance activities, and the most recent assessments or audits.

Technology specific: General
