**Personnel Security (PS)**

**PS-1: Personnel Security Policy And Procedures**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization develops, disseminates, and
reviews/updates \[Assignment: organization defined frequency\]:

a\. A formal, documented personnel security policy that addresses
purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities, management commitment,
coordination among organizational entities, and compliance; and

b\. Formal, documented procedures to facilitate the implementation of
the personnel security policy and associated personnel security
controls.

Control Translation: Ensure personnel security policy and procedures are
in place.

Notes: The organizational risk management strategy is a key factor in
the development of the personnel security policy. Related control: PM-9.
This control can be applied at the General level.

How to test and evaluate: Examine SSP and Personnel Security Policy (if
available). Verify that the policy and procedures are consistent with
applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies,
regulations, standards, and guidance of organization/agency.

Technology specific: General

**PS-2: Position Categorization**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Assigns a risk designation to all positions;

b\. Establishes screening criteria for individuals filling those
positions; and

c\. Reviews and revises position risk designations

Control Translation: This control is looking to verify that the position
risk designations follow OPM guidance and that these requirements guide
what type of screening or reviews will be required for each type of
position.

Notes: This control may be different for cloud environments run by 3^rd^
parties, however there should still be some sort of differentiation
between admin and non-admin roles for example.

How to test and evaluate: Review either a personnel security policy,
procedures addressing position categorization, appropriate codes of
federal regulations, list of risk designations for organizational
positions, security plan, and records of risk designation reviews and
updates looking for the differentiation and procedures used within the
different roles.

Technology specific: General

**PS-3: Personnel Screening**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Screens individuals prior to authorizing access to the information
system; and

b\. Rescreens individuals according to an organization-defined list of
conditions requiring rescreening and, where re-screening is so
indicated, the frequency of such rescreening.

Control Translation: This control is looking for the initial screening
of users prior to access to the system as well as the conditions and
procedures for rescreening.

Notes: The organization may define their own conditions and frequencies
for rescreening but this will need to be documented.

How to test and evaluate: Review the personnel security policy,
procedures addressing personnel screening, records of screened
personnel, and security plan for evidence of the rescreening frequency
and rescreening procedures. Review the initial screen procedures and
documentation of screens performed for each user to ensure that
procedures are being followed.

Technology specific: General

**PS-4: Personnel Termination**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization, upon termination of
individual employment:

a\. Terminates information system access;

b\. Conducts exit interviews;

c\. Retrieves all security-related organizational information
system-related property; and

d\. Retains access to organizational information and information systems
formerly controlled by terminated individual.

Control Translation: This control is looking for the procedures to be
used upon employee termination of employment. There should be
documentation of what needs to happen in the event of an employee
leaving and documentation of the system access removal, exit interview,
property retrieval, and who maintains access to the systems and
documents created by the departing user.

How to test and evaluate: Review the personnel security policy,
procedures addressing personnel termination, records of personnel
termination actions, list of information system accounts looking for the
procedures to be followed when a user leaves. Make sure to look for
documentation of the various items to be completed.

Technology specific: General

**PS-5: Personnel Transfer**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization reviews logical and physical
access authorizations to information systems/facilities when personnel
are reassigned or transferred to other positions within the organization
and initiates organization-defined transfer or reassignment actions
within an organization-defined time period following the formal transfer
action.

Control Translation: This control is similar to PS-4 however this is
specific to transitions instead of departures. Make sure to look for
documentation of what authorizations are to be reviewed in the event of
a transition and what type of job change qualifies as a transition and
the timeframe of all actions.

How to test and evaluate: Review the personnel security policy,
procedures addressing personnel transfer, security plan, records of
personnel transfer actions, and a list of information system and
facility access authorizations specifically for evidence of transitions
from one position to another in which access authorizations will need to
be changed. This may be difficult evidence to find and may result in
only reviewing policies to verify.

Technology specific: General

**PS-6: Access Agreements**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Ensures that individuals requiring access to organizational
information and information systems sign appropriate access agreements
prior to being granted access; and

b\. Reviews/updates the access agreements

Control Translation: This control is looking for a signed agreement
related to access that is signed by each user. It is also looking for a
review/update of each agreement on a regular schedule. This control is
related to PL-4 (Rules of Behavior).

Notes: The schedule is usually annually and this is most often covered
by a rules of behavior.

How to test and evaluate: Review the personnel security policy,
procedures addressing access agreements for organizational information
and information systems, security plan, access agreements, records of
access agreement reviews and updates reviewing for a signed document
that shows an agreement with standards of usage for the system and a
process for reviewing and updating this same document with evidence of
an acknowledgement of the review by each user.

Technology specific: General

**PS-7: Third-Party Personnel Security**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization:

a\. Establishes personnel security requirements including security roles
and responsibilities for third-party providers;

b\. Documents personnel security requirements; and

c\. Monitors provider compliance.

Control Translation: This control is looking for security requirements
specifically for 3^rd^ party providers. It is possible that this control
is not applicable if there are no 3^rd^ party providers. Look for
procedures to monitor the provider compliance as well if the control is
applicable.

Notes: This document could be the same as for internal users, however
this document would have to specify that 3^rd^ party providers are
covered as well.

How to test and evaluate: Review the personnel security policy,
procedures addressing third-party personnel security, list of personnel
security requirements, acquisition documents, and compliance monitoring
process reviewing for the procedures for 3^rd^ party providers if they
are different.

Technology specific: General

**PS-8: Personnel Sanctions**

NIST SP 800-53 Objective: The organization employs a formal sanctions
process for personnel failing to comply with established information
security policies and procedures

Control Translation: This control is looking for the outcomes or
response actions to be taken when a user does not comply with the PS
policies we have already reviewed. These could be documented in the
rules of behavior documents or via another method. This control is
related to PL-4 (Rules of Behavior) and PS-6 (Access Agreements).

How to test and evaluate: Review the personnel security policy,
procedures addressing personnel sanctions, rules of behavior, and
records of formal sanctions (if applicable) for evidence of actions to
be taken and outcomes of those actions.

Technology specific: General
